Welcome back.
You will now learn about eigenvalues and
eigenvectors, and
you will see how you can use them to
reduce the dimension of your features.
Let's get started.
First, I'll show you how to get
uncorrelated features for your data, and
then how to reduce the dimensions
of your word representations
while trying to keep as much information
as possible from your original embedding.
To perform dimensionality
reduction using PCA,
begin with your original vector space.
Then you get uncorrelated features for
your data.
And finally, you project your data
to a number of desired features
that retain the most information.
You may recall from algebra that matrices
have eigenvectors and eigenvalues.
You do not need to remember
how to get those right now.
But you should keep in mind that in PCA,
they are useful,
because the eigenvectors of
the covariance matrix from your data,
they give directions of
uncorrelated features.
And the eigenvalues are the variance
of your data sets in each
of those new features.
So to perform PCA,
you will need to get the eigenvectors and
eigenvalues from the covariance
matrix of your data.
The first step is to get a set
of uncorrelated features.
For this step,
you will mean normalize your data,
then get the covariance matrix,
and finally,
perform a singular value decomposition
to get a set of three matrices.
The first of those matrices contain
the eigenvector stacked column wise.
And the second one has
the eigenvalues on the diagonal.
The singular vector decomposition
is already implemented
in many programming libraries.
So you don't have to
worry about how it works.
The next step is to project your
data to a new set of features.
You will be using the eigenvectors and
eigenvalues in this step.
Let's denote the eigenvectors with U,
and the eigenvalues with S.
First, you will perform the dot products
between the matrix containing your
word embeddings and the first and
columns of the U Matrix,
where n equals the number of dimensions
that you want to have at the end.
For visualization, it's common
practice to have two dimensions.
Then you will get the percentage of
variance retained in the new vector space.
As an important side note,
your eigenvectors and
eigenvalues should be organized according
to the eigenvalues in descending order.
This condition will ensure that you
retain as much information as possible
from your original embedding.
However, most libraries order
those matrices for you.
Wrapping up,
eigenvectors from the covariance matrix
of your normalized data give
the directions of uncorrelated features.
The eigenvalues associated
with those eigenvectors
tell you the variance of
your data on those features.
The dot products between your word
embeddings and the matrix of eigenvectors
will project your data onto a new vector
space of the dimension that you choose.
You are now ready to implement
PCA in this week's assignment
to visualize word representations.
Good luck with that.
And remember to have fun.
Congratulations.
You now know all about PCA and
you know all the steps required for
you to implement it.
Next week, you will learn about
vector spaces, and Lucas will
show you how you can use them to build
a simple machine translation system.